<title>What's New</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheets/book.css"/>

<h1>What's New in 3.9.0</h1>

 
This document contains descriptions of some of the more interesting or significant changes in the *WindowTester Pro v3.9.0* release.

{toc}

<hr/>


h2. Runtime

To enrich RCP tests, condition handling support has been added for eclipse views and perspectives.

* __View Condition Handling__ - Showing and Closed condition handlers have been implemented for views allowing one to write expressions such as @ui.ensureThat(view("Search").isShowing())@ and @ui.ensureThat(view("Search").isClosed())@.

* __Perspective Condition Handling__ -  Active and Closed condition handlers have been implemented for perspectives allowing one to write expressions such as @ui.ensureThat(perspective("Debug").isActive())@ and @ui.ensureThat(perspective("Debug").isClosed())@.

A few other notable runtime enhancements include:

* __Swing Runtime Drag and Drop__ - Drag and drop support has been added to the Swing runtime.

* __Class Name Based Locators__ - @SWTWidgetLocator@ and @SwingWidgetLocator@ instances can now be constructed using class names (rather than only @Class@ instances).  This works-around cases where a @Class@ is not visible to the test project.

* __Turkish Keyboard support__ - Runtime support for the Turkish keyboard has been added.

h2. Target Management

WindowTester Pro custom target support has been improved to make working with GEF-based applications easier.

* __Target Provisioner GEF Support__ - The **New WindowTester Pro Target Provisioner** wizard has been improved to optionally allow the addition of WindowTester Pro GEF support bundles to the created target provisioner.

h2. Stability/Maintenance

This release also contains a number of fixes to improve the overall stability of the product.

* __Figure Locator Runtime fixes__ - interactions with figures that have no @EditDomain@ associated were causing internal exceptions.  These have now been fixed.

* __SWT Widget Locator Link text matching fixed__ - text values in @Link@ widgets was not being properly matched by @SWTWidgetLocator@ instances.

* __SWT Combo Item selection fixes__ - @Combo@ widgets are now tested for enablement before selection is attempted.  This remedies issues where unexpected results were produced when interacting with disabled combos.

* __ContributedToolItemLocator__ - Fixed for clicks on Contributed tool items in property pages.

* __SWTIdleCondition Fixes for Linux__ - The @SWTIdleCondition@ was prone to deadlocks in some rare cases in Linux; this issue has now been fixed.

* __Widget Selection Fixes for Linux__ - Widget selections were prone to deadlocks in some rare cases in Linux; this issue has now been fixed.

* __JListLocator__ - fixed to work with list elements which have a "/".

* __OS X Tree Check Fixes__ - Tree check selections have been fixed for OS X.

* __Button Identification Fixes__ - The recorder was misidentifying buttons in labeled composites with @LabeledLocator@ matchers (instead of @ButtonLocator@ instances); this has now been fixed.

* __TableCellLocator Column Index Validation Fixes__ - The column index starts from 1 for the first column and so on.  If a column index of 0 is used, an exception is thrown indicating invalid column index.

* __Workbench Focus Condition Handling__ - The focus forcing condition handler (as used in calls such as @ui.ensureThat(workbench().hasFocus())@) has been fixed.

* __Context Menu Selection Fixes (OS X)__ - Fixes were made to address issues with context menu selections on OS X. 

* __NamedWidgetLocator Fixes__ - @NamedWidgetLocator@ instances parameterized with a class were not respecting the class in their matching. This has now been fixed.


<hr/>

Notes for the *3.8.0 release* can be found "here":3.8.0.html.


