<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../stylesheets/book.css"/>

h2. Embedded Swing Components

The WindowTester Pro runtime supports testing RCP/SWT applications with embedded Swing components.

{toc}
<hr/>

h3. SwingWidgetLocator

WindowTester Pro provides a <a href="../../../html/reference/javadoc/com/windowtester/runtime/swing/SwingWidgetLocator.html">*SwingWidgetLocator*</a> to identify embedded Swing widgets.

h3. Examples

h4. Clicking widgets and entering text


bc.. ui.click(new SwingWidgetLocator(JTextField.class, 5));
ui.enterText("11001");
p. 

h4. Double-clicking widgets

bc.. ui.click(2, new XYLocator(new SwingWidgetLocator(JTextField.class, 2), 20, 10));
p. 

h4. Tabbing into widgets and entering text

The recorder generates code if you use the Tab key to navigate through the Swing widgets.

bc..  ui.enterText("Jon");
ui.keyClick(WT.TAB);
ui.enterText("Doe");
ui.keyClick(WT.TAB);
ui.enterText("somewhere");
p. 

h4. Sample RCP application with embedded Swing components

The sample ContactManagerRCP application that ships with WindowTester Pro has embedded Swing components. To import into your workspace, go to *File > New > Other > WindowTester Pro and select Contact Manager RCP*. Launch the RCP app and click *File > New Contact... (Embedded AWT Frame)*.

h3. Recording interactions with Embedded Swing components  

The recorder recognizes keystroke interactions with many Swing components (such as TABs used to navigate and text entry) mouse clicks on  embedded Swing components are currently not recognized.
 