<title>Version History</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheets/book.css"/>

**Release notes for the latest release can be found "here":../whatsnew.html.** 

<hr/>


h3. Version 5.0.1 (beta) - latest

Fixes

* __List item context clicks__ - a bug causing list item context clicks to fail in some cases has been fixed.


h3. Version 5.0.1 (beta) - May 20, 2010

Features


* __Parameterized tool items__ - tool items that have an associated @ParameterizedCommand@ can now be located with the @ContributedToolItemLocator@.

Fixes

* __TreeItem check selections__ - a bug preventing proper check state event notification from occurring in @CheckboxTreeViewer@ trees has been fixed.


h3. Version 5.0.1 (beta) - May 12, 2010

Fixes

* __TreeItem check selections__ - a bug causing  the @WT.CHECK@ modifier mask set in the @TreeItemLocator@ constructor to be ignored at runtime has now been fixed.

*  __JLabels in tooltips__ - @JLabel@ widgets in tooltips can now be reliably found by the Swing runtime.


h3. Version 5.0.1 (beta) - April 30, 2010

Fixes

* __Playback delay settings__ - playback delay settings specified in the Playback preferences page were being ignored by the runtime; this has now been fixed.


h3. Version 5.0.1 (beta) - April 20, 2010

Fixes

* __International KeyBoard Support__ - is now working for all the supported language/keyboards. 


h3. Version 5.0.1 (beta) - April 14, 2010

Features

* __Pull down menu item index state assertions__ - the index of a menu item in its parent menu can now be asserted on pull down menu items. For example, 
** @ui.assertThat(new PullDownMenuItemLocator("Layout", new ViewLocator("org.eclipse.debug.ui.ExpressionView")).hasIndex(0))@


h3. Version 5.0.1 (beta) - April 8, 2010

Features

* __Pull down menu item state assertions__ - enablement and selection state can now be asserted on pull down menu items. For example, 
** @ui.assertThat(new PullDownMenuItemLocator("Deselect Default Working Set", new ViewLocator("org.eclipse.debug.ui.BreakpointView")).isEnabled(false))@ and 
** @ui.assertThat(new PullDownMenuItemLocator("Layout/Vertical View Orientation", new ViewLocator("org.eclipse.debug.ui.ExpressionView")).isSelected())@ respectively.

Fixes

* __Named combo support__ - Combo items contained in named @Combo@ widgets are being properly resolved.
* __Tree item context click reveal support__ - tree item context click selections have been fixed to properly scroll to expose the target of the context click.
* __Combo item recording__ - a bug causing recording combo selections to hang the recorder has been fixed.



h3. Version 4.0.1 (beta) - January 29, 2010

Fixes

* __Swing Key Entry Support__ - fixed keyclicks with modifiers and characters.


h3. Version 4.0.1 (beta) - January 11, 2010

Fixes

* __Recorder dialog button toggle state__ - button enablement state now (again) correctly tracks recorder state.

h3. Version 4.0.1 (beta) - December 3, 2009

Fixes

* __Swedish Keyboard Support__ - fixed the keymap for the ä and Ä character entries. 
* __Embedded Swing Runtime Support__ - fixed finder to look for Windows specific implementation of embedded swing frames. 


h3. Version 4.0.1 (beta) - November 19, 2009

Fixes

* __Keyboard Support__ - fixed the en_US keymap to display the appropriate characters.


h3. Version 4.0.1 (beta) - November 9, 2009

Fixes

* __Combo Item Selections__  -  a number of fixes have been made to combo selections:
** combo selection now ensure the SWT.Selection event is dispatched to all event listeners.
** selection and event dispatch are done asynchronously to guard against deadlock in case a listener needs access to the display thread.

* __Named Tool Item Enablement__ - enablement assertions for named tool items have been fixed.

h3. Version 3.9.1 (beta) - internal

Fixes

* __ContributedToolItems__  -  the @ContributedToolItemLocator@ now supports  ToolItems added via command contributions.
 

h3. Version 3.9.1 (beta) -  September 22, 2009 

Features

* __TableCellLocator column header support__ - the @TableCellLocator@ now supports  clicks on Table column headers.

* __Improved embedded Swing locator handling__ - swing locators can now be used directly within an SWT UI context to handle Swing widgets that are embedded in an SWT application.

* __Assertion API for Swing locators__  -  The following assertion API  are supported  for the Swing Locators - HasText, IsEnabled, IsSelected, HasFocus and IsVisible.


Fixes

* __Combo Item selection issues__ - combo selection logic has improved to handle dynamic combos.


h3. Version 3.9.1 (beta) - September 7, 2009 

Features

* __JSE-1.5.0__  - WindowTester Pro is being moved to leverage Java5; as a first step, execution environments have been updated to JSE-1.5.0.

Fixes

* __Runtime performance fixes__ - performance has been optimized in a number of places to address severe performance issues seen with eclipse 3.5 on systems with hyper-threading enabled.

* __Opening perspectives__  - WindowTester Pro will now correctly open perspectives in the same window (instead of spawning a new one).  

* __Internal and nested classes__ -  Added Swing recorder and runtime support for internal and nested class. 

* __Cocoa menu bar fonts__  - menu bar font sizes are now calculated based on the primary monitor's screen resolution fixing some menu item selection issues on high resolution displays.

* __Preliminary 64 bit cocoa support__  - initial steps have been taken to support 64 bit cocoa.


h3. Version 3.9.1 (beta) - August 13, 2009

Fixes

* __Hyperlink recording__  - SWT hyperlink identification in the recorder has been improved.

* __Link recording__  -  SWT link identification in the recorder has been improved.

* __TableItem selection state assertions__ - selection state tests were not always accurate and have now been fixed.

* __View Menu Recording__ - view menu selections are now properly handled by the recorder.

* __Recorder UI improvements__ a number of refinements have been made to the recorder console:
** a recorder configuration (launcher) tool item has been added to the view toolbar.
** keystrokes are now presented as strings (where appropriate) rather than individual keystrokes (e.g., __"Foo" entered__ rather than the sequence __'F' pressed__,  __'o' pressed__, __'o' pressed__).
** events can now be deleted from the sequence using the  __DELETE__ key.
** a special page is presented when there is no active recording with pointers to help launch new recordings.


h3. Version 3.9.1 (beta) - July 30, 2009

Fixes

* __Linux threading bug__ - sometimes a deadlock would be reached when a mouse click occurred; this has now been fixed.

* __Assertions on combo items__ - the Combo (and CCombo) item locator returned @true@ to isVisible if the list could be found, now @true@ is returned only if the item itself is found in the list.

* __Assertions on list items__ - the List item locator returned @true@ to isVisible if the list could be found, now @true@ is returned only if the item itself is found in the list.

* __Assertions on tool item buttons__ - for some tool item buttons, isEnabled always returned @true@ if the tool item could be found, now @true@ is returned only if the button widget is enabled.

* __Linux tree expansion fix__ - the correct key is now used to expand tree items in Linux that have a tool tip or cell editor.

h3. Version 3.9.1 (beta) - July 17, 2009

Features 

* __WizardPageLocator API__ -  API has been added for wizard page access (@com.windowtester.runtime.swt.locator.jface.WizardPageLocator@); an existing internal class (@com.windowtester.runtime.swt.internal.locator.jface.WizardPageLocator@) has been deprecated in favor of the new API.

Fixes

* __Circular dependency removed__ -  a fragment contributed by WindowTester Pro code coverage functionality was introducing a bundle dependency cycle; this cycle has now been removed.

* __(Post context click) menu recording fix__ - a bug affecting the recording of top-level menu selections immediately after a context selection has been fixed.

* __Codegen fix for tests with no setup handlers__ - tests generated with no setup handlers selected were causing errors to get reported to the log; this has now been fixed.


h3. Version 3.8.1 (beta) - Internal Release

Fixes

* __Figure Locator Runtime fixes__ - interactions with figures that have no @EditDomain@ associated were causing internal exceptions.  These have now been fixed.

* __SWT Widget Locator Link text matching fixed__ - text values in @Link@ widgets was not being properly matched by @SWTWidgetLocator@ instances.

* __SWT Combo Item selection fixes__ - @Combo@ widgets are now tested for enablement before selection is attempted.  This remedies issues where unexpected results were produced when interacting with disabled combos.


h3. Version 3.8.1 (beta) - May 18, 2009

Fixes

* __ContributedToolItemLocator__ - Fixed for clicks on Contributed tool items in property pages.

h3. Version 3.8.1 (beta) - May 7, 2009

Features

* __Target Provisioner GEF Support__ - The **New WindowTester Pro Target Provisioner** wizard has been improved to optionally allow the addition of WindowTester Pro GEF support bundles to the created target provisioner.

* __Class Name Based Locators__ - @SWTWidgetLocator@ and @SwingWidgetLocator@ instances can now be constructed using class names (rather than only @Class@ instances).  This works-around cases where a @Class@ is not visible to the test project.

* __Turkish Keyboard support__ - Runtime support for the Turkish Q keyboard has been added.

Fixes

* __SWTIdleCondition Fixes for Linux__ - The @SWTIdleCondition@ was prone to deadlocks in some rare cases in Linux; this issue has now been fixed.

* __Widget Selection Fixes for Linux__ - Widget selections were prone to deadlocks in some rare cases in Linux; this issue has now been fixed.

* __JListLocator__ - fixed to work with list elements which have a "/".


h3. Version 3.8.1 (beta) - April 30, 2009

Features

* __GEF Runtime Docs Improved__ - New GEF Runtime documentation has been added to the Programmer's Guide.
* __Swing Runtime Drag and Drop__ - Drag and drop support has been added to the Swing runtime.

Fixes

* __OS X Tree Check Fixes__ - Tree check selections have been fixed for OS X.
* __Button Identification Fixes__ - The recorder was misidentifying buttons in labeled composites with @LabeledLocator@ matchers (instead of @ButtonLocator@ instances); this has now been fixed.
* __TableCellLocator Column Index Validation Fixes__ - The column index starts from 1 for the first column and so on.  If a column index of 0 is used, an exception is thrown indicating invalid column index.
* __Workbench Focus Condition Handling__ - The focus forcing condition handler (as used in calls such as @ui.ensureThat(workbench().hasFocus())@) has been fixed.


h3. Version 3.8.1 (beta) - April 20, 2009

Features

* __View Condition Handling__ - Showing and Closed condition handlers have been implemented for views allowing one to write expressions such as @ui.ensureThat(view("Search").isShowing())@ and @ui.ensureThat(view("Search").isClosed())@.

* __Perspective Condition Handling__ -  Active and Closed condition handlers have been implemented for perspectives allowing one to write expressions such as @ui.ensureThat(perspective("Debug").isActive())@ and @ui.ensureThat(perspective("Debug").isClosed())@.


Fixes

* __Context Menu Selection Fixes (OS X)__ - Fixes were made to address issues with context menu selections on OS X. 

* __NamedWidgetLocator Fixes__ - @NamedWidgetLocator@ instances parameterized with a class were not respecting the class in their matching. This has now been fixed.


h3. Version 3.7.1 (beta) - March 25, 2009

Features

* __View Closed Condition Handling__ - View locators can now be used to create condition handlers that ensure that views are closed (e.g., @ui.ensureThat(new ViewLocator(..).isClosed());@).  This comes in handy, particularly, in the RCP case where the "Welcome" page needs to be dismissed.

* __Workbench Focus Condition Handling__ - A new workbench locator can now be used to a create condition handler that ensures that the workbench has focus (e.g., @ui.ensureThat(new WorkbenchLocator().hasFocus());@).  

* __Welcome View Condition Handling (Recorder)__ - The recorder can now generate test @setUp@ logic that ensure that the "Welcome" page is closed before proceeding with the test.

* __Custom Base Test Selection__ - At test creation time, users can now select user-defined custom base tests for generated test classes to extend.


Fixes

* __Swing UI Context mouseMove Support__ - The Swing implementation of @IUIContext.mouseMove(..)@ has been fixed.


h3. Version 3.7.1 (beta) - February 20, 2009


Features

* __IUIContext.ensureThat(..) Implemented__ - UI contexts now support the @ensureThat(..)@ protocol. 


Fixes

* __Menu Tracking on Mac OS X__ - A bug in our menu tracking strategy was fixed to better handle cascading menus on OS X.

h3. Version 3.7.1 (beta) - February 3, 2009

Fixes

* __Linux Stability Issues__ - A number of linux stability issues have been addressed.
* __Embedded Swing Components__ - The Swing widget finder has been improved to handle AWT/Swing components that are embedded in SWT Controls.


h3. Version 3.6.1 (beta) - December 20, 2008

Features

* __API Quick Reference Card__ - A new "API Quick Reference Card":../programmer/core/wtQuickRef.pdf has been added to the documentation.


h3. Version 3.6.1 (beta) - December 15, 2008

Features

* __Programmer's Guide__ - A new "programmer's guide":../programmer/index.html has been added to the product documentation.  The guide will be evolving over the next few beta releases.

Fixes

* __Compound Keystroke Dispatch Fixes__ - Certain compound keystrokes (e.g., @WT.SHIFT|WT.ARROW_RIGHT@) were not being posted properly on some machines.  A fix has been introduced to make this dispatch more reliable.


h3. Version 3.6.1 (beta) - November 25, 2008

Features

* __API for easy access to UI Context ConditionMonitor__ - The @IUContext@ now provides a convenience method (@getCondtionMonitor()@) whereby the current Condition Monitor instance can be accessed. 
* __ComboLocator__ - A new @ComboLocator@ has been introduced that can be used to conveniently assert @Combo@ text values. 

Fixes

* __XY calculation in figure dragTo operations__ - The XY offset of figure drag operations was wrongly being calculated from the target figure's center. This has now been fixed to be based on the (expected) top left corner. 
* __Legacy API Migration__  - Legacy API consolidation and migration has begun.  See this "document":Legacy_API_Phase_Out.html for more details.



h3. Version 3.6.1 (beta) - November 17, 2008

Features

* __TreeItemLocator improvements__ - @TreeItemLocator@ implements @HasText@ and provides a @hasText(..)@ condition factory method.
 
Fixes

* __TreeCellLocator fixes__ - A bug preventing qualified locators (e.g., cells in views) from being properly constructed has been fixed. 
* __Bundle Infrastructure updates__ - In order to take advantage of OSGi bundle management best practice, we have begun the process of creating (and migrating to) bundle manifests for all the WindowTester Pro bundles. Note: API clients should not be affected by this move. Please let us know if you are! 
* __Javaodc fixes__ - Due to malformed html in a package description, the API Summary doc was not being properly built; this has now been fixed. 

<hr/>

Notes for previous release betas are archived "here":beta-archive.html. 


 